imagine two people are listening to
music what are the odds that they are
listening to the exact same playlist
probably pretty low after all everyone
has very different tastes and music now
what are the odds that your body will
need the exact same medical care and
treatment as another person's body even
lower as we go through our lives each of
us will have very different needs for
our own healthcare scientists and
doctors are constantly researching ways
to make medicine more personalized one
way they are doing this is by
researching stem cells stem cells are
cells that are undifferentiated meaning
they do not have a specific job or
function while skin cells protect your
body muscle cells contract and nerve
cells send signals stem cells do not
have any specific structures or
functions stem cells do have the
potential to become all other kinds of
cells in your body your body uses stem
cells to replace worn-out cells when
they die for example you completely
replace the lining of your intestines
every four days stem cells beneath the
lining of your intestines replace these
cells as they wear out scientists hope
that stem cells can be used to create a
very special kind of personalized
medicine in which we could replace your
own body parts with well your own body
parts stem cell researchers are working
hard to find ways in which to use stem
cells to create new tissue to replace
the parts of organs that are damaged by
injury or disease using stem cells to
replace damaged bodily tissue is called
regenerative medicine for example
scientists currently use stem cells to
treat patients with blood diseases such
as leukemia leukemia is a form of cancer
that affects your bone marrow bone
marrow is the spongy tissue inside your
bones where your blood cells are created
in leukemia some of the cells inside
your bone marrow grow uncontrollably
crowding out the healthy stem cells that
form your blood cells some leukemia
patients can receive a stem cell
transplant
these new stem cells will create the
blood cells needed by the patient's body
there are actually multiple kinds of
stem cells that scientists can use for
medical treatments and research adult
stem cells or tissue specific stem cells
are found in small numbers in most of
your body's tissues tissue-specific stem
cells replace the existing cells in your
organs as they wear out and die
embryonic stem cells are created from
leftover embryos that are willingly
donated by patients from fertility
clinics unlike tissue-specific stem
cells embryonic stem cells are
pluripotent this means that they can be
grown into any kind of tissue in the
body a third kind of stem cells is
called
induced pluripotent stem cells these are
regular skin fat liver or other cells
that scientists have changed to behave
like embryonic stem cells like embryonic
stem cells they too can become any kind
of cell in the body while scientists and
doctors hope to use all of these kinds
of stem cells to create new tissue to
heal your body they can also use stem
cells to help understand how the body
works scientists can watch stem cells
develop into tissue to understand the
mechanisms that the body uses to create
new tissue in a controlled and regulated
way scientists hope that with more
research they can not only develop
specialized medicine that is specific to
your body but also better understand how
your body functions both when it's
healthy and when it's not
you